For triples, I should be able to do a
triple at about 190 now. So just because
you can do it doesn't mean like that's
what you do every session. So strategy
that I didn't have. I trained for the
first decade of my career like most
people just come in and train as hard as
you can. Train to fail on everything.
And the progression was slow. Right? So
now that I have the strategy and this is
what people can't get their heads
around. How can I get better if I'm not
training as hard as I can? Well, you
kind of will be training as hard as you
can, just not every single time. Put
water on my This is my free workout.
Thank you very much. Hang on a second.
Is this for you? Did you
must get the same drink as me? Did you
get a long black with honey? I've
converted you. Hey, who else have I
converted? Honestly, put in the comments
who's doing long blacks with honey. I've
had a few people comment saying life
changer. Yeah, I don't know if it's life
changer, but it's a pretty good coffee.
Anyway, what are we doing today? We're
benching. This is Friday. Um, busy week.
I did seminars last week, seminars this
week, and I've had less time to train.
So, this is my only bench press session
this week. Um, pretty tired, all that
stuff. Whatever. Let's see how we go
today. My last bench press session, I
did 205 kg for one, so I'm not going to
be doing my top single. This guy's
fighting 100 men. Have you seen that?
The gorilla versus the silverback versus
100 men. So, he's Yeah. got a few things
that he needs to consider. He's going to
be training hard to fight 100 men. We'll
see. Watch this space. Go and follow
him. That's godly strong. Do you know
who that is? Yeah. He's the silverback.
Yeah. Watch this space. I'm going to do
some bench press volume. Not a huge
amount. And I'm not going too heavy
because my last bench press session I
did a 205. That's the the tips for you
guys. You don't go heavy heavy heavy
heavy. If I go over 200 kg in a week,
don't do that again. That's for me
anyway. And usually when I write
programs for strong people, did the same
for that guy. He bench pressed 280 kg.
So, worked for him, worked for me,
worked for actually advice that I got
from Kil Sachev, which is where I learn
all of my bench press technique in the
first place. And he does bench pressing
two times per week, one heavy, one
light. There's one more thing that I
need to do today, and that is one of my
boys on my team, Ollie, he said, "Can
you bench press 100 kg for 30 reps?" And
I thought, "I think I can." So, that's
what I'll probably do as a bit of a back
down set after this is try and do 30
reps. Last time I did 100 kg, I did over
40.
All right. So, we're going to do some
spotto press today, this new program.
So, the last phase, if you saw, I did a
205 kilo bench press, which is great. I
want to beat that. But you don't just
keep on coming in and retesting your
max. So what we do, it's like I say, you
don't break through the brick wall, we
come around the brick wall. So that's
what I'm doing with my squats is I got
to a 300 kg. Great. We tick that box.
Now we're coming back uh and I'm doing
paused squats. And that's the same with
here. I'm going to change the technique
to one of my favorite bench press
techniques to learn all sorts of things.
It's called a spotto press. So that's
named after former number one bencher in
the world. His name is Eric Spot. And
when he used to do his bench press, he
used to not touch his chest. And I don't
even think that he paused it. But
nowadays, people bastardize that
technique, myself included. And we call
the spotto press, where you do the bench
press and you pause an inch off your
chest, so you don't quite touch the
chest. So, I'm not sure if that's
exactly how he did it, like with a
pause. I know that he used to rep it out
and not touch the chest, and people
would say, "You're cheating, cheating,
cheating." But then all of a sudden, he
had a world record bench press. I think
it was like 322 kg give or take
somewhere around that mark, which was
the best in the world raw. So, it's
funny how everyone says you're cheating,
you're not doing it properly, but then
all of a sudden it's better than
everyone else. Anyhow, something I like
about doing the spotter press the way
that I'm going to be doing it, which is
pausing just an inch off the chest, is
it teaches you how to stay tight in the
bottom position, just like the squat,
the paw squat teaches you how to stay
tight in the bottom position. That's
what pausing anything does. It teaches
you how to hold the weight with muscles
rather than just dumping it on your
chest or bouncing it on in the bottom
position, which is going to make you one
strong off the chest, but also something
I like about pauses. A lot of people
think you're spending more time under
tension in that position where you're
pausing. Yes, you are. Yes, it does make
that stronger, but it also teaches you
how to stay tight in the weakest
position. Okay? So, uh you cannot be too
strong off the chest, right? So, here's
an interesting thing. So I talk about
how do you know if you're lacking
tension? So it's like a basketball
bouncing. The speed up should match the
speed down, right? So with the bench
press, if it's slow off the chest, it's
like that's how we know you lack
tension. So you shouldn't be slow off
any part. And slow off the chest means
not that you're necessarily weak off the
chest. Sometimes yes, but a lot of times
no. Most times it's because you lack the
understanding of how to maintain tension
in that bottom position. So spotto press
is a perfect accessory bench press
exercise for you. two sets of 60. So now
this is
80. My spot press is typically 10%
weaker than my normal bench press.
So if that's the case for triples, I
should be able to do a triple at about
190 now. So just because you can do it,
doesn't mean like that's what you do
every session. So that would be my
absolute max. So if my absolute max is
190, 10% less than that, call it 20 kg
less, is 170. So, I should be able to do
170 for triples with a spotto press.
Just using that logic, right? But that
would be my limit. And I don't want to
train at my limit. I want to leave
repetitions in reserve, especially
considering it's week one of my program.
So, week one of the program, don't go to
fail. Leave repetitions in reserve. This
is a common argument and discussion that
people have with should you train to
fail or not. The answer is sometimes
yes, sometimes no. When should you?
Well, for light exercises for building
muscle like bicep curls, tricep
extensions, absolutely take it to fail.
To be honest, you can you can also have
a like that's the thing. It's like
there's no black and white like always
you should do this. Like but with with
those isolation exercises, they have a
low cost of fatigue. So, if you do train
them to fail every single time, it's
probably not going to do that much harm.
It could be a good idea. But if you
train all of your big compound movements
to fail every single time, that's where
you know it increases fatigue firstly.
So a lot of people say when you fail big
exercise, increase risk of injury. Not
always. You got to be lifting heavy
enough to be able to injure yourself.
Human bodies are pretty strong, pretty
resilient. Training to fail isn't always
about reducing risk of injury. Okay? But
technical breakdown is a huge part of
well avoiding technical breakdown is a
huge part of strength training because
skill and technique matters when it
comes to strength training. avoiding
technical breakdown so that we can
refine the pattern, refine the skill of
the movement. When you're grinding out
and you're having to break form to
complete the lift, you're reinforcing
shitty technique. So, don't do that. The
next thing with these big compound
movements, I talk about my four-weekly
programs. So, you doesn't have to be
four weeks, could be 5, 6, 8, whatever
you can justify. I like four-weekly
programs. What you want to be doing is
progressing every time you come into the
gym. So, to progress every time you come
into the gym, you need some type of a
strategy. Imagine you train as hard as
you can on week one, right? And take it
to fail. So that's me saying I should be
able to do 170 kg for triples. And I
come in and I grind out 170 kg for a
triple. Like I think I'd be able to, but
it would be really, really, really hard.
What happens next week? What do I go to
next week? Do I get 172 next week? Is
that a great progression? It kind of is.
But it's not fun to be grinding out and
just getting it and then next week you
only go up by a little bit. That's
probably like a 1% one and a half%
increase in strength in load. Is that
fun? No, it's not always about fun. But
I'd prefer to do this. Start more
conservative. So if I say roughly I
should be able to do 170, maybe I'll
start on 160. Okay. Refine the movement.
Learn the demands of the program. This
is the first time I've done a spotto
press in some time. So it'll feel
slightly unfamiliar for me, right? So
maybe 160 will be hard. I don't know.
But that's the beauty of week one. 160
kilograms, which is my predicted submax,
right? So, I'm predicting that I should
have repetitions in reserve. What that's
going to do is allow me to practice the
movement and understand how hard
actually is it. And then I'm going to
have a better indication of where should
I jump to on week two. Do I jump to is
it so easy that I can jump to 170?
Great. Is it hard? Okay, great. Well,
then it's like if it's hard, then lucky
I didn't do 170 on week one. Um, but
that's the reason why I like to start
conservative is to allow room to make
those decisions because every time I
come into the gym, I want to go up. I
want to add weight to the bar. And the
next alternative is if I went for 170,
which is, you know, 10% lighter than my
So, as I said, remember, spotto press is
like 10% weaker than your normal press,
right? So, that's 10% load reduction.
That means 170 should be my max. Like,
let's just say I do it and it's like I
overshot it and I failed reps. What do I
do next week? try and do it again and
not fail or do I reduce the weight so
that I can get the prescribed reps and
sets? Either one of those options I
don't like. I'd rather start light,
learn the demands of the program, give
yourself room to be able to go up by
like a good jump, like 5% every single
week, which is what I'm going to try and
do today. The same technique. Same
technique. Exactly the same technique.
You don't have to. You can do like close
grip spot press or mid-grip spotter
press or incline spot press. But for
this, I am going to be doing because I'm
a, you know, an advanced bench presser,
I like to keep that same movement every
single week at least once. So that's
what I'm going to be doing with this.
Feeling okay. Another thing I realized
you warm up the technique that you're
going to use. For sure. Yeah, that's not
black and white. You have to do that,
but I highly recommend it. Like, why not
practice the skill in your warm-up sets?
So, some people just warm up by doing
normal benches and then it's like, okay,
cool. Now, we're at the top weight. So,
now let's do the spot press. Practice
the movement. Everything that we
do, skill is involved.
So, my warm-up sets, I want to do the
exact same technique that I'm going to
be doing in my top sets.
Three sets of
Yeah, I think a 3x3 on 160 spotto press.
And I would like So, if all goes to
plan, I'd like to go week one 160 for
3x3 and then go up by 5 kg every week.
60 65 70 and then on week four uh
175. If I can get 175 for 3x3 on week
four and it's
easy. And then I retest my max, it
should be a little bit heavier. Two days
ago, I squatted heavy. Yesterday I did
boxing. So I'm doing that two times per
week. So the unrackck position is not
feeling very comfortable on my
shoulders. So I'm going to try a new
technique. It's not new to me. It's new
to you guys. I haven't really shown you
this, but it's good for self
unrackcking. And self unrackcking if
you're not maxing out. I don't slide
back as I normally do. Okay. Okay, I'm
using the bench here and I'm behind me.
I was trying to see where you are. And I
lift my hips up. So, I'm in a decline
position. You see that? So, the
advantages of that, the unrackck is
strong. So, it puts me in a position
when it's in a decline and I can just
press and then when I lower my weight, I
don't change my shoulder
position. That's the pros. The cons of
that is I can't get my feet as far back
as I normally would in competition as if
I slid back, brought my foot back, dig
my feet in, and then slide forward. So,
it's not as much tension, but it's safer
on the shoulders for the unrackck. So,
there's pros and cons of everything that
we do. I'm sure
someone some of the powerlifting fans
are going to look at that and go,
"There's a new rule against that in the
IPF. You're not allowed to bring your
feet up on the bench." That's true. But
I'm going to tell you something cool
about this is I'm not in the IPF. I'm in
base gym and I can train however I like.
So, a lot of the times when I do these
things, people say, "You can't do it
because um it's against the rules."
Well, what rules?
[Music]
That's funny. I don't know if you saw
when I was unrackcking it the position
cuz it's just new. It's well done it
before but it's kind of new again. So
it's like my orientation is a little bit
off but that's okay. That's fine. It's
actually stronger for the unrackck. But
then when I bring my feet down, I'm not
quite as tight. But then, you know, I
came down, pause, then it's like, oh,
easy, easy. So, hopefully, uh,
160 is easy like that.
It's relatively easy weight for you,
too. It's always heavy and there's risk
of injury with 160 for sure, but, you
know, I'm pretty comfortable that it's
not going to be maximal. It's submaximal
this weight, which is where you should
start on week one when you're
familiarizing yourself with a new phase.
Don't max out. You don't want to be
grinding reps. And then I'll tell you
what happens. Your body adapts real
quick. Human bodies are really clever.
So this is called neural adaptations. So
there's two types of adaptations you can
achieve in the gym, neural and cellular.
So the neural adaptations essentially
your brain's ability to talk to your
body and you're building coordination.
Cellular adaptation is building muscle.
So after one session, you don't really
build muscle. So that's what happens. If
you go too heavy, you're ingraining
shitty patterns, right? And your brain
is trying to figure out what you want to
do and be better at a shitty pattern.
Whereas don't go to fail. Be submaximal.
Use a lower RP. Refine a good pattern.
And then the neural adaptations that you
get, the brain figures out that
technique is nice. I figured it out.
Next week I'm going to allow you to do a
lot better. So a lot of the times, you
know, so let's just say today's 160.
You'll see. Next week I'll go for I
haven't done it yet. I'm talking like
I've done it, but you'll see. You'll see
what I get. And then next week I'll add,
you know, maybe 5 kg. And the plan is it
should be not really harder. Uh even
though I'm going heavier. That's the
neural adaptation. Question for you.
Yeah, bro. What you did in training? Oh,
man. So I'm 43 years old. You know,
dabbled in it when I was 16 and then I
stopped. But then I started properly at
the age of 19. So you could say training
like when I I was a fanatic at the age
of 19.
Question. I was a skinny guy. Let me
finish on this one. I was a skinny guy.
I was this height. So 5'11 or 179. So
just under 5'11. And I was 63 kg. Today
I'm 100. So I was 63 kg. And I met this
girl who ended up being my MS. That's
Felicia. Married her eventually. But at
first our first date was on the beach.
And I was like, "Oh man, I have to take
off my t-shirt with this hot girl and
she's going to look at my skinny body."
And I thought, "Fuck that. I'm sick of
being in that position, man. I'm going
to train." So I went to my big brother
Cameron and he was training with
weights. He was jacked. And I said,
"Bro, you got to [__] make me
bigger." And uh so I trained with him
every day. So it's 4 days a week from
then, like a fanatic non-stop. So I
first started doing my weights because I
wanted to build muscle and look good to
impress a chick. Then I got bored of
muscle building and bodybuilding and
then I was introduced to strength
training and that's how I became a
powerlifter because I preferred to do
you know like track my progress and lift
heavier and heavy weights than you know
the aesthetics game. So yeah, 63
kilograms is when I started at the same
height that I am today, 19 years old. So
it's been 24
years. It's been a long one.
Tell me, tell me, tell me. Um, your
milestones on the bench press, like the
first 100, the first 140. Oh yeah. So
the first 100 was pretty quick. I bench
pressed very frequently when I first
started. I didn't train legs when I
first started either. So the way that I
train with my brother, I didn't really
care about my lower body. I just wanted
to get the abs and the pecs. That's how
most people train when they first start.
Uh, come walk with me. I got to get the
Oh, here it is. Where will I set up my
camera? I'll figure it out. I'll do
multiple sets. Anyhow, my bench press,
my first 100 kg, I was benching, you
know, two to three times per week when I
first started. And I got to my first 100
kg, probably in about 6 months. Wow,
that's insane.
Maybe even less to be honest with you. I
was benching a lot. That's all I really
gave a [__] about. I didn't know much
about training. Like, I sucked at
everything else. But my bench press I
got to 100. But then to get to 140. So,
so those are the increments in
Australia. 100 is two plates. 140 is
three plates. That took me years. I
would say another, I don't know, maybe 8
years. Not because that's how long it
takes, because I didn't know how to do
it. I was just pushing the heavy thing
off the chest and just trying to go
heavy every single time. And that's not
the best approach. So, I'd plateaued a
lot on my bench press for a long period
of time until I learned the powerlifting
technique. Then I got from 140. Well,
actually the day that I tested 140, I
ended up getting 145. But then after I
did that, you know, maybe about two
years later, I got 180. How's that?
Yeah, because I learned how to do it. I
started learning, you know, this is what
I always say, the smarter you get, the
stronger you get. So, I wasn't very
smart when I first started. I just came
in and just tried to push as hard as I
could, right? and just lift heavier and
heavier weights and it didn't work out
because I didn't set myself up with an
intelligent lifting strategy, which is
what I'm teaching you guys is the
strategy of treating your training like
it's a marathon. Don't come in on week
one and train as hard as you can. You
got to come in, start like I'm doing
now. Give yourself room to be able to
make errors if you need to and room to
be able to progress from week to week.
So, that's the strategy that I didn't
have. I trained for the first decade of
my career like most people just come in
and train as hard as you can train to
fail on everything and the progression
was slow right so now that I have the
strategy and this is what people can't
get their heads around how can I get
better if I'm not training as hard as I
can well you kind of will be training as
hard as you can just not every single
time right so you can see I'm not
training as hard as I can but I'm
training pretty hard right you'll see
this is like relatively I should be able
to do more reps I'll have reps in
reserve so you look at it and go easy
but I Got to push pretty hard, right?
Okay, let's go. Set one. Set one. I need
three reps.
Good one. Yeah. Real easy. Real
easy. So, it's just unfamiliarity. See
how slowly I came down? That's cuz my
shoulders and arms are sore from
squatting. That's my telltale for me
anyway. If you ever see me coming down
really slow, it's cuz I'm guarding the
pain. So, ideally, if I was to train for
a competition, when you do all the de
loing and all that stuff, you want it to
be in the position where you come in on
com, you're not battling any sorenesses.
Um, so then you'll be able to come down
a little bit faster. So, for now, the
discomfort, I'm slightly out of position
because I'm unrackcking myself as well.
So, when I have someone unrackck me,
I'll be in a much nicer start position.
But either way, that's another reason
why I like to start conservative. Start
too heavy on week one, especially with
you're learning a new technique. No
spotter.
No, it's fine. Maybe on the next week if
I don't have a a spotter. But let's have
a look at the
replay. Slow pause. Good. And fast.
Very smooth.
Real smooth. I'll tell you another
strategy when it comes to training to
fail. And I'm thinking of doing this. So
week one is kind of like calibrating.
I'm figuring out is that the right
weight. The next thing I could do, which
is an intelligent approach, is am wrap
the last set. So that's going to allow
me to go, is there a fourth rep or even
a fifth rep? If I can do that, then I'll
come in next week going, "That was
really easy. Maybe I can go up to 170
next week. Who knows? Or maybe not even.
Maybe I'll stick to 165. I'll am wrap
the last set. Stick to 185. So week one
163 by three, but the third set will
wrap it. See if we can get a fourth or a
fifth rep. Next week we go 165 and do
the same thing. Three on the first two
reps and then wrap the fourth. Sorry,
three on the first two sets. You want to
catch your breath?
No, I'm okay. I'm not puffed out from
that. That was pretty comfortable. That
was very easy as you could see. So I'll
go, yeah, I'm going to try and do that.
Well, we'll see. We'll see. I'll do the
next set. See how that goes. And then on
the third set, like it's funny. It feels
heavy in my hands cuz my body's tired.
It feels heavy. my hands and it's like
but then it just goes
yeah which is what you want on week one.
All right. So, that's I'm doing 8 minute
rest. 8 minutes seems long to people.
For me, it is long considering I didn't
go to a like real high RP, but I want
the whole session to be easy, especially
for these. I'll do lesser rests like in
the accessories I set
to eyes behind the bar. Remember, mouth
is in line with the
bar. People say come down further. So,
your eyes in line with the bar. You got
to reach back way too far. Don't do
that. Come up a bit higher. So, all you
need to really do is just unrackck it
enough to clear the rack when you come
down so you don't bump on this thing.
That's all. All right, let's go. Big
focus.
Good one.
Yeah. Isn't that funny how the body
works, right? I told you the human body
is pretty smart. We figure things out
real real quick. So that's from set one
to set two. I figured it out a little
bit better. So the same thing will
happen from week one to week two. The
biggest adaptations you make with
strength training, especially initially,
is neural adaptation, which is why
technique matters. You want to ingrain
the correct pathways from the start.
When you're breaking down technique and
you're missing reps, you're
enforcing the wrong
technique. I see a lot of comments like
they follow the journey and then they
tag along and they get stronger too.
Yeah, I've heard people get stronger
from watching me. I know someone very
well that does that. Is that you,
Must Have you seen them? They say like,
"Oh, I started doing like this and that.
Now my max is like Yeah, I've I've heard
that a lot because I do I'm very
generous with my information, right?
is this is the stuff like I've never
really had a huge amount of guidance.
You know, when I first started that many
years ago, like I said, my brother, of
course, but he was the same as me. Like,
we were beginners and we just wanted to
get big jacked upper bodies. We didn't
really care for legs or anything like
that. Silly mistake, but whatever. But
in the industry, like it took me 10
years to learn the powerlifting
techniques, you know, the arch in a
bench press, the low bar squat. I didn't
know that. There was not many people
teaching all those all those things.
Which is why when I first started like
as a coach when I first started when I
first learned it, it was like a
breakthrough. It's like, "Oh my
goodness, look how quick I can get these
results." And I started posting that
stuff on social media. And people
started liking it. And then people
started learning who I was and reaching
out to me and asking me to coach them.
And that's how I built my reputation.
All I did was really I was a fanatic
with my training. Got really excited
about the techniques that I learned.
started teaching everyone else like I
was like I'm doing for you guys. I was
like try this technique. I promise you
it makes you strong. That's how I built
my reputation and built my business.
That's all I do. That's all I did. I was
a fanatic with my training. Now it's
like I look back at that and it's like
damn if I had someone someone on social
media that was posting like Australian
strength coach every day on tips to get
stronger and lift heavy weights and
doing all those things. If I had that,
let me just tell you how much quicker I
would have achieved a lot of these
numbers. Like it's hypothetical
situation, of course. But that's right.
I see the feedback. I see people say
things like, "I followed your technique
and I got a PB every single day." I see
that. You know what you should do?
There's actually a YouTube video from
Matt Dearvella. He came to me. He's a
fellow I don't want to say fellow
YouTuber. He's a big YouTuber. You want
to put the link here? You should check
that link up here. Click the link here.
That's 100 days of powerlifting. Matt
Davella, he's a YouTuber, really big
YouTube account. He's an excellent
videographer and editor. And he made the
sickest video. He did 100 days of
powerlifting with me. And we took him
from, you'll see, like he's a he's like
70 something kilograms. I don't know, 70
something, 75, call it. And he came to
me with, you know, it was like 150 kilo
deadlift, something like that. 100 kilo
bench and 120 kg squat. We took him to
160 squat in 16 weeks. We took him to
200 kilo deadlift in 16 weeks. You know
how many years it took me to get a 200
kilo deadlift for example? And he came
he's like, "How long does this stuff
take?" And I was like, "I don't know.
Let's just see. Do everything properly
and and let's just see." Yeah. So, we
went to a 200 kilo deadlift. He's not
like a a professional athlete. I don't
want to say he's weak or anything like
that, but that's not his sport. He's a
he's a minimalist. Go and check him out.
You probably already know him. You're
probably already following him. And the
video that he made was sick. Watch that
video and you're going to learn exact
process that I took him through. It was
a 16week program split up into four by
four different weeks. It was a specific
strategy to get to competition day. And
yeah, so when people say, "What's the
potential? How long will it take me to
get to this strong?" I often say, "I
don't give a [__] You know, it takes 10
years to get properly strong. I don't
give a [__] how long it'll take you to
get, you know, uh, your first milestone.
I don't care. That's not where it's at.
Don't worry about that 100 kilo bench or
140 bench or whatever it is. There's so
much you can do if you do it for 10
years consistently. But at the end of
the day, people do want to know the
answer of how long will it take to get
my first 200 kilo deadlift or what
whatever it might be. Go and check that
video. I may be a little bit biased
because it was a like I was a star in
that video, but at the same time, sick
video. Okay, so we've got one more set
as promised. I'm going to do an AM wrap.
So, in my head, so especially on the
last set, I was thinking, do I have four
or five? Yeah, I think I can do five. I
think the fifth rep will be tough, but I
think I can do it. So, I'm going to go
for five on this last set.
RP, maybe less.
Maybe more. Really? Yeah, cuz it's the
last set. Do you know what I mean? Like,
why do you save reps in reserve? So you
can have So, there's a few reasons. So,
you can allow room for progression from
week to week, but also so you can have a
successful set after set after set. So
the whole session's successful, not just
the first set, right? But if this is my
last set, what am I saving energy for?
I'm not going to do another heavy set.
So we'll send that on the last set. Like
that's just one of many strategies. It's
not how I always do it, but this feels
quite light. Like I should be able to do
to give you a bit of perspective. I
should be able to do 160 for 10 reps
right now. I I I would be able to do
that for 10 reps. Not spotto like just
normal up and down 10 reps. So 160 for
three kind of is easy. It is a
conservative week one.
Five reps. Good one.
So, I reckon maybe I had a six. So, that
was
RP9. That was RP9. Good one.
So, I reckon yeah, I'll stick to the
plan and go up by 5 kg every week. Going
to watch it. We have to watch it, don't
we, Musty? Let's see. I'll tell you now,
this unrackck feels
uncomfortable. Huh. So comfortable. That
was like up
eight. But it's deceiving because it
kind of gets it's not the same curve of
fatigue, right? So you got like linear
fatiguing if it's just like a normal
rep, but this is more exponential
fatigue because of the longer spotto
pause, right? So the first rep easy,
second rep, h kind of easy. Third rep, h
it's like the fatigue kicks in a lot
quicker with these ones. So it's not as
predictable. So that lot, if I did
another rep, I'm certain I had six reps.
Of course, when I'm looking at that, it
looks like I had seven reps. Maybe the
sixth rep would have gone really, really
slow, you know? But anyway, when I look
at that, that looks like I definitely
had seven
reps. Well, one more thing that I had to
do. So, that's the end of
benching, except someone asked me if I
could do 30 reps on a 100 kilogram bench
press. And I said
probably. So, may as well do that next.
I'm only going to do 30, though. So, if
it looks like there's more, fine. Like I
don't need to beat myself up just to do
this for a request for a special
request. But I think 30 reps on 100 kg
is
fine is fine. I don't want to just rep
it out just for the sake of hey
Instagram look how cool I am. I can do
so much on 100 kg. But at the same time
I kind of do but I'm not going to I'm
not going to for the sake of the program
I'll do a set of 30 because I think
that's not going to interfere with the
remainder of my program. So I'll do a
set of 30. Then after that we're going
to do some accessory exercises. All
right. So, this is just a quick yolo set
and we'll go for 30 reps. Go for 30 easy
reps. Hopefully, it's really easy. Uh,
I'm not going to do spotto. I'm just
going to go up and down and rep the hell
out of it.
There we go.
Good chest pump for a
Friday. You know what's funny? I know
that that 30th rep was fast, but it felt
like there was not many more reps to
go. So, it's deceiving. High rep stuff
is really deceiving. It's like fast and
then nothing. But in all
honesty, I don't think I had 40 today.
I've done the best I did on my 40th
birthday. I was 105 kilos. So, I benched
105 for 40
reps. They were messier than that for
sure. They were really bouncy. Those
were kind of I don't know, a little bit
paused. Maybe they weren't. They felt
like they a little bit paused and
controlled. No, for some of them, not
really. It's not really paused, but for
me in my head, it's a slight pause, like
bang, pause, bang, pause, bang, rather
than bounce, bounce, bounce, bounce,
which is what a lot of people are doing
with these high rep sets is bouncing,
bouncing, bouncing. The last few reps, I
definitely paused. Yeah, I probably had
35. If I did bouncing reps, maybe a
little bit more. Maybe if I did it
fresh, maybe a little bit more. Maybe I
could do
40. Next, we're going to do some back
and some more dumbbell work. So,
shoulder pressing, what I'm thinking
about is I want to do pull-ups,
but pull-ups are just so damn heavy. I'm
going to do assisted pull-ups. So, this
is the next thing with pull-ups, you
know, and me, I'm a strong guy. Why are
you doing assisted pull-ups? Because I
like to do same technique with a pull-up
as I do with a pull down. So, what rep
range do you do with a pull down? I do,
you know, like kind of 10 to 15 rep
range with a pull down. With a pull-up,
a lot of people just accept it's heavy,
so you kind of do like five five reps. I
don't know, five to 10 reps. For me, I
don't like to do less than 10 reps on my
pulling exercises because I think that
it takes you out of position when you're
going so heavy. So, the objective for me
with my pulling exercises isn't to win a
one rep max pull-up competition. So,
that's as a powerlifter, I don't need to
have that level of strength. You know,
some athletes do train for max strength
on on their pull-up. When you have a
look at people doing like a one rep max
or less than five for a pull-up, what
does the technique look like? Think of
that in your head. Does it look like how
the back looks in a lat pull down? So,
what does that mean? For a pull down, I
like full stretch, shoulders back, and
down. Now, some people can do that with
their pull-ups, but a lot of people when
they go super heavy, they don't. They
kind of
go, right? And that's how their
shoulders end up. So, is that a bad
thing? Depends what you think that is.
But I'll tell you what you're not doing
is retracting and depressing the
scapula, which is targeting those
midback muscles. Right? So, a lot of
times you think of a pull-up or whatever
is lats. Of course, it is. But also, one
of the biggest problems that people have
with shoulder pain is weak midback
muscles. You don't really get too many
people like you got shoulder pain cuz
you got weak lats. A lot of people hit
their lats cuz you do with like whatever
technique you want with a pull-up. So,
that action is going to hit lats, but
you're not always guaranteed to get
those midback muscles. So, that's what I
want when I do my pulling exercises. So,
that's what I'm going to do next. I'm
going to do band assisted
pull-ups.
Okay. Feel set. So this is 37 kg and
I so then my first work set will be 50s
and then I'm going to do a feel set on a
lat pull
down. See this technique? That's the
technique that I want you to do on a
pull-up. When you do a
pull-up, shoulders back and down, full
stretch, shoulders back and
down. That's how you get complete upper
back development. It's good for lats,
good for midback. When you go rounding
like that, there's no midback
involvement.
We should teach you secrets about the
rear delt.
I guess that's the secret for the rear
delt is the technique that I've always
done is kind of just I don't know that
technique I don't like to do any of this
[__] I don't know if I've done a lot of
rear delt raises or like isolation
exercises in my career. I do a lot of
external rotations and I've always just
kind of done that for many years. So
this is coming from my background. My
mentor in my early years in my career
was Charles Polloquin and he teaches a
lot of external the importance of
strengthening the external rotators of
the shoulder. There's three muscles that
externally rotate your shoulder.
Infraspanatus, Terry's minor, they're
part of the rotator cuff group. And the
rear deltoid also externally rotates. So
I used to religiously perform external
rotations at the end of all of my upper
body sessions. They'll do sometimes, not
all the times, but I would say that
contributed a lot to my development of
my rear delts. But I think it's largely
genetics as well. So I'll tell you now
on the end of my deadlift sessions, my
rear delts get jacked as well. Yeah.
So, all right. Next up, we're going to
go 50 kilo shoulder press. I'm doing it
with a little bit of a pause as well.
Pause. Drive. Pause. Drive.
[Applause]
So I felt like that was a bit of a
pause up pause instead of just going
bang bang bang. So it's a slight
variation
from my last
phase. You know, when I do variations
from phase to phase, it's another funny
discussion. Of course, you're going to
hear I'm always going to talk about the
arguments for and against everything
that I do because you're probably going
to hear it on social media. That's the
problem with too many people having a
voice. A lot of people say four-week
programs, which is what I like to
follow, is too short. You should take
them for six or eight
weeks so that you can get the most out
of that program. My opinion is it's
pretty hard to progress every single
week for 8 weeks. You know, I've worked
with people that do follow programs for
8 weeks and it's like they get stuck on
like week four, week five, they can't go
any further. They've maxed out, they're
failing reps and then their coach is
telling them to go for another 3 weeks
because, you know, apparently 4 weeks is
too short and they're stuck not
progressing every week. So the last 3
weeks of the program, not always, but
sometimes they're failing reps and
training sucks. So I look at that and I
think you're not enjoying this. That
sucks. Like you're training too hard
every single week. Just because your
coach is fixated on a number thinking
four weeks is bad, eight weeks is good.
That's not the case at all. Neither is
good or bad. In my opinion, I'll tell
you what is bad. If you've selected the
loads incorrectly, you're failing reps
and the program is not completed and you
got to try and go heavier every week and
you can't. Okay? You make up your mind
logically. Is that good or bad? I don't
think it's good. So, the negative of
doing only four weeks, this is the
argument against doing four weeks is too
short. It's too much variation. Well,
the variation that I'm doing, I'm not
going from like squats to star jumps.
Every exercise that I'm doing has a very
logical progression. It's a very small
change. One leads onto the next. So, I
went from squats to pause squats. Then
I'll bring it back to no paused again. I
went from bench press to spotto press
and then I'll go back to normal bench
press again and I'll change the rep
ranges and change the loads. So, those
are the those are the variations that
I'm changing. Small part of the
movement. I'm not completely giving
myself an overhaul. There's always going
to be relevance from one phase to the
next. They all lead onto each other. So
the pause squats and the pause bench
allows me to stop from lifting maximum
maximum loads. It's slightly less weight
for a phase. Not much weight, but it's
slightly less weight, which is less
stressful for me. Uh before I then come
back to another heavy phase again. So
four-week programs also allow me to
progress for four weeks, go heavy,
heavier, heavy, heavier. It's like you
can't get going heavy for every forever.
So four weeks for me is like a nice
sweet spot. So anyway, I'll do a set of
pull-ups now. So, this band isn't much.
Probably prefer to do more band
assistance. I feel like this is the
wrong one. Anyway, whatever.
I feel that band gave me a
whole lot of not much at all. So, eights
it is. I was hoping for tens, but I
think if I I could have done 10, but
that's when the technique would have
gone. Yeah. Which I don't want to do.
One more set of each.
After this, I'm going to do some
shoulder health exercises. I'll probably
do some more face pulls. I love that.
So, there you go. So, there's a little
bit of rear delt action for you. So,
I'll do face pulls to the top of the
head, which is, you know, midback and
then we go externally rotate. So, if you
just do it to the neck, great exercise.
That's midback and reels. But then when
you go top of the head, it's those same
muscles, but then external rotators as
well.
So, I'll do that now. Until then, if you
haven't subscribed already, do me a
favor, click subscribe, and I'm going to
keep on producing good quality content
for you if you consider this good
quality content. Tomorrow, I've got my
seminar, but before that, this is a
challenge. I got to go heavy deadlifts
because I don't really have time
otherwise. So, I got to come in. My
seminar starts at 10:00 and it's a full
class. So, I've got to try and get my
session in before that. So, I'll start
at
8:00. That's going to be tough for me
because I'm used to training at about
11:00. Anyway, I'll do my deadlifts
tomorrow and we'll record it for you
guys as well. So, I'll see you guys
tomorrow. Hope you enjoyed the session.
See you soon.
It wasn't a special session, you know,
like it
was it's just an easy session, but he
was there for me.